Snake game using OpenGL is a computer action game, whose goal is to control a snake to move and collect food in a map. The most common version of the game involves the snake or line eating items which make it longer, with the objective being to avoid running into a border or the snake itself for as long as possible. The player loses when the snake either runs into a boundary or its own body. Because of this, the game becomes more difficult as it goes on, due to the growth of the snake. OpenGL (Open Graphics Library) is cross-platform application programming interface for rendering 2D and 3D vector graphics.
 
The game has following mechanism : The game environment is made of 500x500 map. A grid is made for snake to travel with boundaries around  it. The snake starts with length one and  travels around the grid to consume the food which is placed at different co-ordinates inside the grid. The snake can travel straight, turn right, turn left. Apparently, the snake grows longer each time it consumes the food and one point is added to the score board. If the snake collides with the boundary or collides itself , it is game over. The score board is popped up indicating the score scored by the player. The objective of this game is to maximize the score by above mentioned simple strategy by keeping the snake alive without moving the snake towards the boundary or making it collide itself. It isn’t the world’s greatest game, but it does give an idea of what one can achieve with relatively simple C++ language and Open Graphics Library.
